# Midgar

Up until eighty years ago Midgar was previously the ancient land of Guadosalam. Located in what is now Midgar, Guadosalam was a peaceful city featuring many types of beast-kin and tribes of Miqo’te, Viera and many others. The denizens worshiped life, and had a unique connection to Lifestream in the form of places of power. They built archaic amphitheaters at loci of Lifestream power that allowed people to commune with the many souls that inhabited the lifestream. The lands surrounding the villages and cities of Guadosalam were once a lush forest that spanned for miles.

This was until Shinra and their war machines conquered this land and formed the nation of Midgar, as they believed them to be ‘weak’ and ‘primitive’, after a campaign of trying to subvert the order of the land through telling of their advancements and machina, they eventually used the influence they had to overthrow the current order and create the present nation. Midgar is founded on tenets of equality, and breaking away from the tradition ‘tribes’, ‘clans’ and ‘racial divides’ that they claim Guadosalam had, and to an extent it did, as it was ruled by a council of tribal leaders. Though their claims are overblown.

Under the ideals of Midgar, every man has an equal standing, and all are judged by their merits. At least, theoretically. In reality Shinra as a company absolutely dominates the land and dominates every aspect of Midgarian life. Shinra controls all major infrastructure, defense, and nearly all aspects of a person’s day-to-day life in Midgar. Midgar is a corporatocracy in essence, even if they aim to give off the idea that they’re a meritocracy, and all people in Midgar are beset by constant Shinra advertisements and propaganda.

Midgar also has a very obvious pollution problem stemming from its Mako reactors. The effects of this are down-played and largely ignored officially, as it only affects the poorest people within Midgar who have little voice and less reach.
